### Evaluation of the Predictive Capabilities of Select Brain Attributes for Sex and Age Group
Ariana Olson, Emma Price

Researchers and social scientists alike have often wondered if there is a biological difference between "male" and "female" brains. Several studies, including [Sex beyond the genitalia: The human brain mosaic](https://www.pnas.org/content/112/50/15468) and [Multivariate revisit to “sex beyond the genitalia”](https://www.pnas.org/content/113/14/E1966) have used a system of looking into many brain features to try and answer this question and comparing between those male and female study participants, with conflicting results.

Both of the studies above include a dataset that includes the absolute volume of regions of the brain in their mosaic analysis. Men are traditionally larger than women and so are their brains. As such, it is fairly easy to identify a male brain given the absolute volume of different regions, but this does not necessarily indicate a difference between the brains of the sexes.

We used the Nathan Kline Institute Volume (NKI) Dataset to examine the predictive capabilities of a logistic regression model fit to brain region volumes when they are normalized for the total brain volume and compare this model to a logistic regression model fit to the same features normalized for total volume to predict a brain's age group, as well as logistic regression models fit to the same volume features that classify if a brain falls into certain age ranges -- looking specifically at people 25-49 and 49-60, which would be recognized in most work places as 'young' and 'old'. Given that a lot of gender disparity is made apparent in the workplace, but there is little age disparity in the workplace, this makes an interesting comparison. We also used the 1000 Connectomes project dataset to fit a logistic regression model to classify male and female brains for comparison and to classify whether undergraduate and graduate student brains fit into the "underclassmen" (ages 18-21) or "upperclassmen" (ages 21-26) groups.

Across the board, we found when looking at the Cohen effect sizes between sexes and age groups that the differences between sex were more different than the differences for age groups. As well, the logistic regression models we created that classify by sex also have better performance across the board compared to the models for age. Although more data and studies are needed to say for certain, the fact that the logistic regression models fit to the brain features that are not tied directly to the total volume of the brain perform significantly better than random chance points to there being some other differences in male and female brains aside from overall size.

The full report can be found [on github here](https://github.com/arianaolson419/ThinkStats2/blob/master/project3/report3.md)
