# Comic Character Representation and Machine Learning
Ariana Olson
Emma Price
We are planning to work with a data set from [a FiveThirtyEight project that they scraped from Marvel and DC fan wiki pages](https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/women-in-comic-books/). Their project investigated the gender and sexual representation of good and bad characters over time. The data is from their Github and consists of two CSV files, for Marvel and DC characters separately. The data is in an easy-to-use condition and we have it in hand. There may be some cleaning if we need to make the data non-categorical for our ingestion and analysis (not necessarily changes the categories, but just as they appear in the data).
We are planning to explore topics of machine learning using this dataset. This analysis will be very exploratory in natural and involve a wide array of machine learning models to allow us to practice and better understand the techniques that we have been taught in recent weeks. Some questions that we have thought about are using characteristics to determine whether a character is from the Marvel or DC Universes or what year they were first introduced in their world. We are specifically interested in Deep Learning and classifiers as computational tools and will almost definitely use them in practice.
Some ethical concerns that we have are reducing a demographic of people to just those characters that represent their specific identities/making claims about demographics based on the characters that also have those identities. As well, we do not want to construe any opinion that we may have about the Marvel and DC franchises (and otherwise) as fact.
